# [New Static Site](http://latehours.net)

A simple template for starting to develop static websites such as portfolio, landing page etc. This project utilizes customized [HTML5 Boilerplate](https://github.com/h5bp/html5-boilerplate) and handful of build scripts that ensure fast and iterative development and easy deployment.

## Project plans
Gulp will replace grunt in the future. Until that happens there will be no updates so don't hold your breath.

## Quick start

1. Make sure you have latest Node.js and nginx installed in your machine
2. Clone repository: ```git clone https://github.com/jozan/new-static-site.git my-cat-pics```
3. Follow build instructions below
4. Configure nginx with the settings below


#### Build

    npm install -g grunt-cli bower
    npm install && bower install
    grunt

1. Use node package manager ```npm``` to install ```grunt-cli``` and ```bower``` globally ```-g``` in your machine
2. Install required scripts and their dependecies decleared in ```package.json``` and ```bower.json```
3. Run ```grunt``` to build your site from source and deploy to ```public``` directory in the project root

When everything is ready to be published use ```grunt dist``` to minify HTML, CSS, JS, and images.

### Tips

- For continious development and to avoid running ```grunt``` separately after each save use ```grunt watch```. It detects modified files in ```src/``` and runs ```grunt``` automatically.
- Use [LiveReload](http://feedback.livereload.com/knowledgebase/articles/86242-how-do-i-install-and-use-the-browser-extensions-) extension and forget constantly pressing refresh and enjoy the full benefits of ```grunt watch```.
- To have clean git history remove ```.git/``` in the project root and run ```git init``` to initialize new git repository.
- Build script compiles Jinja2 templates by default. Example of usage can be found in ```src/layout.html``` and ```src/index.html```. Albeit this project is meant to be used for static sites only, having templates is handy in many cases.

### Project structure

After running ```npm install```, ```bower install```, and ```grunt``` your project structure looks like the following:

	/new-static-site
		|-- Gruntfile.js         (Grunt configuration)
		|-- README.md
		|-- bower.json           (Bower configuration)
		|-- bower_components/
		|   `-- [ installed components by bower ]
		|-- node_modules/
		|   `-- [ installed modules by npm ]
		|-- package.json
		|-- public/
		|   `-- [ files generated by grunt tasks, ready to be released ]
		|-- src/
		|   `-- [ your working directory ]
		`-- temp/
		    `-- [ temporary folder for grunt tasks, do not edit ]


### Using with backend frameworks

Configure output path of ```copy:after``` in ```Gruntfile.js``` to match your framework's public path. Create views normally and configure ```hashres``` to check those files.

------------------------------


#### Nginx dev config

    server {
        listen 8089;
        server_name new-project.tunk.io;
        root /path/to/public;

        location = / {
            rewrite ^ /index.html last;
        }

        location / {
            try_files $uri $uri.html =404;
        }
    }

#### Nginx production config

    #
    # New Static Site (new-project.tunk.io)
    #

    server {
        listen 80;
        server_name new-project.tunk.io;
        return 301 $scheme://new-project.tunk.io$request_uri;
    }

    server {
        listen 80;

        root /var/www/new-static-site/public;
        #index index.html;

        server_name new-project.tunk.io;
        
        client_max_body_size 5M;    
        
        location = / {
            rewrite ^ /index.html last;
        }

        location / {
            try_files $uri $uri.html =404;
        }

        error_page 404 /404.html;
    }

## License

Copyright (c) 2014 Johan Ruokangas

License is yet to be decided.
